# TransverseFieldIsingModel

1) The code which finds the ground state of a 2D transverse field ising model (TFIM) is stored in TFIM.py. In order to run the code, first build a docker image using `docker build --tag tfim .`. Next, in order to run the image as a container use `docker run --name container_name tfim:latest`.
2) I chose to unravel the 4x4 lattice into a 1D chain and employ the 2-site DMRG routines from TeNPy to find the groundstate of the TFIM. Note that the TFIM is defined as H = -J \sum_{<i,j>} \sigma^{x}_{i}\sigma^{x}_{j} - g \sum_{i} \sigma^{z}_{i}. It is related to the more commonly written TFIM (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transverse-field_Ising_model) by a unitary transformation (applying Hadamard gates on all qubits). Since the two Hamiltonians are related by such a transformation, they have the same spectrum and so for our purposes, we will recover the correct groundstate energy (more care must be taken when evaluating observables and correlation functions). I chose to use TeNPy for its simplicity of setting up the problem in python. Since we are only considering a 4x4 lattice, even though the system is 2D I would expect MPS routines to easily find the groundstate. If we went to larger system sizes the 1D unravelling of the 2D lattice make the resulting 1D Hamiltonian effectively long-range which would become problematic. I find the groundstate using the variational 2-site DMRG optimisation algorithm (which allows flexibility in the required bond dimension as a key advantage over the single site algorithm). 
3) Naturally the Hilbert space of the problem grows exponentially with system size, so despite tensor networks being very efficient at capturing groundstates of local, gapped Hamiltonians (since these states satisfy an area law), our ability to simulate them on classical hardware is nonetheless limited. We can imagine using quantum devices to speed up such ground state searches by using quantum annealing or quantum-classical hybrid algorithms such as VQA or QAOA. These algorithms have already been demonstrated to run on current analogue quantum devices.
4) TFIM.py creates a figure GroundstateEnergy_TFIM.pdf. After running the docker container, run `docker cp container_name:/app/GroundstateEnergy_TFIM.pdf GroundstateEnergy_TFIM.pdf` to retrieve the figure after TFIM.py finishes. Finally, to stop the container use `docker stop container_name`, and remove the container using `docker rm container_name`.
